# SysAdmin Commandments

## About

A list of rules that I _should_ have known to do (or wish I had known to do) in order
to avoid pain points as part of administering technology processes (servers, desktops,
mobile, printers, _whatever_).


## UNIX-like Servers

1. Backups are good. Frequent backups are better. Audited and tested backups mean 
   they're real.

1. For every script that runs as a specific user, an alias should be setup to catch mail
   for that user and send to a real address for review.

## Log files

- Custom log files should be stored in `/var/log/SCRIPT_OR_APP_NAME_FOLDER/`. This helps
  avoid weird permission issues between the syslog daemon and the apps running on the
  box.
    - Point of disagreement: Storing custom variations of a log file in the same folder
      as the original?
        - Example: `/var/log/mysql/mysqld.log` generated by rsyslog conf fragment
        - Example: `/opt/redmine/log/email_scraping_output.log`
        - Generated by a scraping script that I use which uses logger to record output.
          Because the content is passed into syslog socket via logger, it eventually
          passes into rsyslog which writes out the file. rsyslog runs under a different
          account than the Redmine user account (used by Phusion Passenger), so any
          upgrades to Redmine are likely to affect permissions/ownership on the
          `/opt/redmine/log/email_scraping_output.log` file. If it is created in the
          `/var/log/redmine/` directory instead the permissions can be setup once
          and should persist moving forward.
    - Bottom line: Keep the files generated by rsyslog separate from any files generated
      directly by another application if at all possible.
